USAID GLOBAL HEALTH SUPPLY CHAIN – 
PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY 
MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
QUARTERLY REPORT 
YEAR 1 QUARTER 1, JANUARY 11 TO MARCH 31, 2016 
April 30, 2016 
DISCLAIMER 
The authors’ views expressed in this publication do not necessarily reflect the views of the United 
States Agency for International Development or of the United States government. 

This publication was produced for review by the United States Agency for International 
Development. It was prepared by Chemonics International Inc. under Global Health Supply 
Chain - Procurement and Supply Management (GHSC-PSM) Contract No. AID-OAA-I-15-
00004; Task Order 01 Contract No. AID-OAA-TO-15-00007; Task Order 02 Contract No. 
AID-OAA-TO-15-00009; and Task Order 03 Contract No. AID-OAA-TO-15-00010. 
Recommended citation: USAID Global Health Supply Chain – Procurement and Supply 
Management Single Award IDIQ. 2016. USAID GHSC-PSM Quarterly Report Year 1 Quarter 1. 
Washington, D.C.: Chemonics International Inc. 
Chemonics Contact: 
Anthony Savelli 
Procurement and Supply Management Project Director 
2345 Crystal Drive, Suite 550 
Arlington, VA 22202 
P 202-955-3487 | M 202-684-1479 
asavelli@GHSC-PSM.org 

............................................................................................................................. 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................... 
.............................................................................................. 
.................................................................................................. 
.................................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................. 
.................................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................. 
....................................... 
.............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................... 
.............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................. 
.............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
............................................................................................................................................. 
.............................................................................................. 
.............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
.............................................................................................................................................. 
............................................................................................. 
............................................................................................................................................. 
CONTENTS 
Contents
ii 
Acronyms
iii 
Executive Overview 
1 
Organization of the Report
4 
A. 
Task Order 1 - HIV 
5 
1. 
Highlights 
5 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
6 
3. 
Challenges
7 
B. 
Task Order 2 - Malaria
8 
1. 
Highlights 
8 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
8 
3. 
Challenges
10 
C. 
Task Order 3 – Family Planning/Reproductive Health
11 
1. 
Highlights 
11 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
12 
3. 
Challenges
13 
D. 
Global Supply Chain
14 
1. 
Highlights 
14 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
16 
3. 
Challenges
17 
E. 
Country Programs Technical Assistance
18 
1. 
Highlights 
18 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
19 
3. 
Challenges
20 
F. 
Global Collaboration
21 
1. 
Highlights 
21 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
22 
3. 
Challenges
22 
G. 
Project Management 
23 
1. 
Highlights 
23 
2. 
Progress Against the Transition Plan 
23 
3. 
Challenges
24 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | ii 

ACRONYMS 
3PL 
third-party logistics 
4PL 
fourth-party logistics 
ACT 
artemisinin-based combination therapy  
AIDS 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
ART 
antiretroviral treatment 
ARV 
antiretroviral medicine 
BI&A 
Business Intelligence and Analytics contract 
CARhs 
Coordinated Assistance for Reproductive Health Supplies (CARhs) 
 
group 
COR 
Contracting Officer’s Representative 
DSIP 
demand supply inventory planning tool 
FAR 
federal acquisition regulations  
FBP&A 
freight, bill, payment and audit 
FDA 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
FMIS 
financial management information system 
FP/RH 
family planning and reproductive health 
FY 
fiscal year 
GFATM 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
GHSC 
Global Health Supply Chain 
HIV 
human immunodeficiency virus  
IAPHL 
International Association of Public Health Logisticians  
IDIQ 
indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contract 
 
IHS 
Imperial Health Sciences 
 
ISG 
Inter-agency Supply Chain Group 
 
ISO 
International Organization for Standards 
K+N 
Kuehne+Nagel 
 
KPI 
key performance indicator 
LLIN 
long lasting insecticidal net 
MDAWG  
Market Development Approaches Working Group 
 
M&E 
monitoring and evaluation 
MIS 
management information system 
 
MOU 
memorandum of understanding 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | iii 

OAA 
USAID Office of Acquisition and Assistance  
PEPFAR 
U.S. President’s Emergency  Plan for AIDS  Relief  
PMI 
President’s Malaria  Initiative  
PPMR 
Procurement Planning and Monitoring Report 
PSI 
Population Services International 
PSM 
Procurement and Supply Management 
 
PtD 
People that Deliver 
PVC 
polyvinyl chloride 
 
QA 
quality assurance 
QC 
quality control 
 
QMS 
quality management system 
 
RDC 
regional distribution center 
 
RDT 
rapid diagnostic test 
REOI 
request for expressions of interest 
 
RFP 
request for proposals 
 
RFQ 
request for quotations 
RHGTAG 
Reproductive Health Global Advisory Traceability Group  
 
RHSC 
Reproductive Health Supplies Coalition 
 
RTK 
rapid test kits 
 
SCMS 
Supply Chain Management System  
SOP 
standard operating procedure  
TO 
task order 
TWG 
transition working group 
UNAIDS 
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS 
UPS 
United Parcel Service  
USAID  
U.S. Agency for International Development 
 
VMMC 
voluntary medical male circumcision 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | iv 

GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | v 

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
The USAID Global Health Supply Chain – Procurement and Supply Management (GHSC-PSM) 
single award IDIQ ensures uninterrupted supply of health commodities to prevent suffering, 
save lives, and create a brighter future for families across the globe. The IDIQ has three task 
orders (TOs) that directly support: 
 
The U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for 
AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) – TO1 
 
The President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI) – 
TO2 
 
USAID’s Office of Population and 
Reproductive Health – TO3 
The project provides a comprehensive array 
of services for health commodity 
procurement and related systems-
strengthening technical assistance that 
encompasses all the elements of a 
comprehensive supply chain. Our support is 
organized under three objectives: global 
supply chain, country programs, and global 
collaboration. 
This GHSC-PSM Quarterly Report 
summarizes the project’s activities and 
outcomes for Year 1 Quarter 1, January 11 to 
March 31, 2016. In this first quarter, we 
launched the project, started the planning-
intensive process of transitioning time-
sensitive activities and responsibilities from 
the incumbents, put in place the foundations 
of our procurement and supply management 
approach, and built our team and management 
procedures. These are summarized below. 
This quarter by the numbers
2 major commodity sourcing events 
2 important deliver/return sourcing events 
1 RFQ issued to avoid a stockout of 
Sayana Press 
13 order requests received for 
malaria products 
20+ USAID missions expressed
interest in buy-in 
1 country (Mozambique) with an approved 
transition plan 
6 global collaboration activities 
6 commodity councils convened 
10 transition working groups launched 
60% of staff positions filled 
Project Launch 
Effective launch of a project of this size and complexity – the largest project ever administered 
by USAID – requires close working relations with USAID/Washington Contracting Officer’s 
Representatives (CORs) and other technical representatives, incumbent project staff, and 
USAID missions interested in buying in to the project. Project staff began work on December 
23, 2105, and the project officially launched with a startup conference from January 7 to 9, 2016, 
at which USAID and GHSC-PSM discussed the general transition approach, specified the data 
and information required of USAID and the incumbents, and inaugurated transition working 
groups (TWGs). 
GHSC-PSM started building the foundation of our supply chain vision in the project’s first 
quarter. Our Global Supply Chain group launched our Plan, Source, Deliver/Return, and Quality 
Assurance teams. These teams are responsible for their individual functional areas, while also 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 1 

working collaboratively to provide integrated, efficient support to TO procurement 
requirements. 
GHSC-PSM began establishing commodity councils to provide strategic management of each 
major commodity category. To provide a wide range of expertise and perspectives, the 
commodity councils include representatives from USAID, GHSC-PSM, and FHI360 (to represent 
the quality assurance perspective on councils related to TOs 1 and 3). The councils analyze 
commodity and market data, develop commodity-specific sourcing strategies, and communicate 
with potential suppliers to inform planning 
and sourcing. GHSC-PSM hosted a two-
day workshop to launch the commodity 
councils. We presented information about 
the market dynamics, plan, source, deliver, 
and quality assurance (QA) considerations 
for each product group. We reached 
agreement on priority issues, potential 
projects, and metrics that will drive each 
sourcing strategy and timeline. 
GHSC -PSM Commodity Councils 
1. 
HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals 
2.
Lab equipment and medical supplies 
3. 
Malaria pharmaceuticals 
4. 
Bed nets and malaria rapid diagnostic tests 
5. 
Reproductive health pharmaceuticals and devices 
6.
Male and female condoms 
7.
Essential medicines 
8.
Other global health commodities 
Transition Planning 
Collaboration with incumbents from PEPFAR’s Supply Chain Management System (SCMS) 
project and USAID|DELIVER PROJECT began at a meeting led by USAID in late January. 
Participants began detailed discussions of how to manage the transition, global supply chain 
issues, transition of technical assistance, communication protocols, and transmission of data and 
materials. GHSC-PSM has benefited greatly from the productive and collaborative relations with 
all of these parties during the first quarter. 
TWGs serve as the hubs of transition planning and implementation for the 10 key project 
functions: 
TWG 1: Senior management/operations 
TWG 2: Finance 
TWG 3: Monitoring and evaluations 
TWG 4: Supply planning 
TWG 5: Health commodity procurement
TWG 6: Logistics 
TWG 7: Quality assurance 
TWG 8: MIS/data visibility 
TWG 9: Country programs technical assistance 
TWG 10: Global collaboration 
TWGs benefit from significant guidance and support from the USAID CORs and other USAID 
technical staff. SCMS and DELIVER staff participate as needed. The TWGs started working the 
day after the kickoff meeting to develop detailed transition work plans and to spearhead 
transition activities for their functional areas. 
Objective 1: Global Supply Chain 
The Global Supply Chain group completed commodity prioritization, is processing order 
requests, and is about to place our first order. GHSC-PSM initiated major activities to source 
four key commodities and services in our first quarter: ARVs; bednets; freight, bill, payment, and 
audit services; and freight forwarding. In addition, we began developing an agreement with the 
leading injectable contraceptive supplier. To minimize the risk of supply interruption during the 
transition, GHSC-PSM is negotiating short-term agreements with Imperial Health Sciences (IHS) 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 2 

and United Parcel Service (UPS) to continue to manage the stock in regional distribution centers 
(RDCs) in Africa and in warehouses in Singapore and the Netherlands until we competitively bid 
warehouse services and determine a new RDC strategy. 
Our MIS team developed a detailed implementation plan and conducted blueprinting for a 
system that combines three proven information technology solutions (IBM’s e-commerce suite, 
Kuehne+Nagel’s fourth party logistics management information system, and Chemonics’ financial 
information management system) into a single portal to provide comprehensive supply chain 
data visibility. We delivered the first of four releases of the MIS. The initial release provides 
functionality for supplier and contract management. 
Objective 2: Country Programs 
Throughout the quarter GHSC-PSM has been working closely with USAID missions interested 
in buy-ins and their backstops in USAID/Washington. More than 20 USAID missions expressed 
interest in buying in to the project. Working closely with USAID country backstops and mission 
staff, GHSC-PSM initiated scoping missions and operational startups for all of these in Quarter 1. 
Startup teams started visiting countries to establish relations, learn about priorities, plan to 
transition contracts and activities, and arrange for staffing and offices. USAID facilitated “deep 
dive” sessions with SCMS and DELIVER that provide a detailed review of a country program’s 
technical objectives, priorities for transition, and critical dates in the transition timeline. GHSC-
PSM has mobilized staff, established procedures, and is developing transition work plans and 
budgets to enable us to open 17 offices this fiscal year. 
Objective 3: Global Collaboration 
GHSC-PSM began establishing working relationships with actors in the global health community, 
among other things by starting to participate in technical committees and conferences. We 
worked to better understand USAID's market dynamics priorities and to tailor plans for market 
dynamics work to the needs of each TO. We conducted formative research to understand 
USAID and GHSC-PSM project leadership’s vision of the GHSC-PSM website and the project’s 
global collaboration and communications role. 
Project Management 
Project leadership built strong working relations and communications channels with USAID. We 
also established a productive working relationship with SCMS and DELIVER staff. GHSC-PSM 
put in place financial management and reporting systems, established regular internal 
management meetings and processes, and prioritized recruitment to fill key staffing positions. By 
the end of the quarter, 60 percent of positions on the project team were filled (106 out of 176 
positions). Ninety three (93) individuals had started by March 31, and 13 others had accepted 
offers. 
The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) team worked closely with the USAID M&E specialists to 
develop key performance indicators (KPIs) and submitted the first draft of the M&E plan. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 3 

ORGANIZATION OF THE REPORT 
The report is organized as follows: 
 
Section A: TO1 – HIV 
 
Section B: TO2 – Malaria 
 
Section C: TO3 – Family Planning/Reproductive Health 
 
Section D: Objective 1 – Global Supply Chain 
 
Section E: Objective 2 – Country Programs Technical Assistance 
 
Section F: Objective 3 – Global Collaboration 
 
Section G: Project Management 
In each section, we highlight significant achievements; describe progress against each activity and 
milestone scheduled for the reporting period; and discuss challenges, risks, and proposed 
solutions. 
In future quarterly reports, we will provide annexes that report and provide analyses of 
performance by KPI. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 4 

A. TASK ORDER 1 - HIV 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Commodity councils. GHSC-PSM launched two of the commodity councils that will support TO1: 
(1) Commodity Council 1 for HIV-related pharmaceuticals, primarily antiretroviral medicines 
(ARVs); and (2) Commodity Council 2 for laboratory equipment and medical supplies, including 
voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) kits and related commodities. Commodity Council 
7 on essential medicines, to be launched next quarter, also will be important for TO1 because 
co-trimoxazole (used to prevent several opportunistic infections) is procured in large quantities 
by countries with large numbers of people on antiretroviral treatment (ART). 
Transition. To accelerate progress on TO1, we convened several groups critical to the transition 
from SCMS to GHSC-PSM. 
GHSC-PSM global supply chain and country program teams working on TO1 started meeting in 
March to ensure cross-functional coordination and to align plan, source, deliver, and systems 
strengthening functions centrally and for in-country programs. Participants discussed the 
transition status of forecasting, contracts, warehouse contracts, network design optimization, 
and the data needed by GHSC-PSM from SCMS. The TO1 internal supply chain meetings are 
held on a monthly basis. 
We are holding integrated supply chain meetings with USAID and SCMS. These focus on the 
transition of procurement responsibilities from SCMS to GHSC-PSM, our laboratory strategy, 
and VMMC procurement. 
To ensure an enhanced laboratory strategy under GHSC-PSM, we also initiated weekly 
laboratory meetings that bring together the relevant USAID COR, the USAID laboratory leads, 
and relevant GHSC-PSM staff. 
A smooth transition of stock into and order placement from RDCs is key to avoiding stockout 
of ARVs during and immediately after the transition. To this end, SCMS placed the warehouse 
restocking order for ARVs this quarter and GHSC-PSM will place the order next quarter. The 
GHSC-PSM Plan and Source teams reviewed the RDC replenishment plans in detail with SCMS 
to prepare for the transition. 
Staffing. We are recruiting a laboratory director, a VMMC director, and two managers to 
support each. These positions will support our laboratory and VMMC work for procurement, 
country systems strengthening, and global collaboration. Also, we are hiring a process chemist 
with in-depth knowledge of the processes and market influences on ARV production and supply 
to support the procurement and market dynamics aspects of ARV procurement. 
Preparedness. GHSC-PSM is prepared to place one-off and emergency orders in response to 
requests. At the same time, we are preparing for ongoing responsibilities. In March, GHSC-PSM 
released the first request for quotations (RFQ) for short/mid-term ARV framework contracts. 
GHSC-PSM met with the GHSC-Rapid Test Kits (RTK) contractor, Remote Medical 
International, to discuss how the two projects would collaborate and to start developing a 
memorandum of understanding (MOU) to document this collaboration. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 5 

2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 1 lists the activities and milestones planned for this TO this quarter, summarizes 
progress, and indicates the status of planned activities. 
EXHIBIT 1. TO1 PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Be prepared to process one-off and emergency order requests. As of February, 
GHSC-PSM was prepared to process one-off and emergency order requests. TO1 did 
not receive requests for such orders. 
Complete 
Launch Commodity Council 1 (HIV/AIDS Pharmaceuticals) and Commodity 
Council 2 (Lab Equipment and Supplies, VMMC Kits, and Related Commodities). 
GHSC-PSM launched both of these commodity councils. 
Complete 
Participate in the WHO/UNAIDS Global Forecasting meeting for pharmaceuticals 
and diagnostics in Geneva. GHSC-PSM staff participated in this meeting in Geneva 
March 8 to 11. Following plenary discussions and presentations, the GHSC-PSM team 
met with the major pharmaceutical and diagnostic suppliers in individual meetings, 
with USAID and SCMS representatives present. 
Complete 
Execute,  with USAID OAA approval, transitional framework agreements  with key  
commodity suppliers.  GHSC-PSM made progress in  developing transitional  
framework agreements with key commodity suppliers:  
 ARVs. We released an RFQ for short/mid-term  agreements  for ARVs, and began  
reviewing quotations  at the end of the reporting period.  
 VMMC kits.  We  prepared  an RFQ for framework  agreements  for VMMC kits. This  
will  be published once the product specifications  are  confirmed by USAID.  
On track 
Obtain/review TO1 ARV supply plans. SCMS countries have submitted their 
Quarter 1 ARV supply plans to the SCMS home office. The SCMS home office has 
reviewed the RDC replenishment plans in detail with the GHSC-PSM Plan and Source 
teams. 
Complete 
Review weekly open order updates from SCMS. GHSC-PSM has been receiving 
data requested from SCMS. The next step, to occur in the third week in April, is for 
GHSC-PSM and SCMS to jointly review open orders, by country, for each TO1 
commodity. (See challenge #1 below.) 
Ongoing 
Transfer  in-country technical assistance  from SCMS to GHSC-PSM (3 months  
prior to SCMS program end). Transition planning  to transfer technical  assistance  is  
underway or soon to  begin  in 16  countries  that will buy in for TO1 under the GHSC-
PSM project. Teams are working in the  field, debriefing the home  office, and  
developing work plans to establish transition offices through  September 2016. The  
transition work plans  and  budgets will  cover the transition of procurements, plans  to  
deliver  goods procured under SCMS but received by GHSC-PSM, and hiring 
incumbent and new staff to lead the work.  
The countries buying in to TO1  are: Botswana, Burma, Burundi, Ethiopia, Ghana,  
Haiti, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Uganda, Vietnam,
Zambia, and Zimbabwe.  
On track 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 6 

PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Hold TO1 integrated supply  chain  meetings  with GHSC-PSM, USAID, and SCMS.
GHSC-PSM hosted integrated supply chain  meetings this quarter on the following  
dates and topics:  
February 16: Discussion  of ARV RDC and direct drop transition strategy
February 25: Discussion  of transition  strategy for laboratory  systems  strengthening
and procurement  
March 1: SCMS presentation  on demand planning  to procurement process for 
generic ARVs, ARV demand planning through procurement and client order 
process, and ARV restocking  order tender evaluation process  
March 15: Demonstration of  country-level  quantification and  analysis of lab  
equipment and commodity needs  and  utilization, featuring a  demonstration of the  
ForLab software  
March 23:  Demonstrations of Quantimed  and PipeLine quantification  software  
March 31: Discussion of VMMC transition strategy for sourcing, warehousing, and  
demand planning  
Ongoing 
Hold TO1 internal supply chain meetings. GHSC-PSM held one TO1 internal 
supply chain meeting with the TWG leads and key stakeholders. Participants 
discussed the transition status of forecasting, commodity contracts, warehouse 
contracts, network design optimization, and the data needed by GHSC-PSM from 
SCMS. 
Ongoing 
Hold PSM lab strategy meetings with USAID. We initiated weekly lab meetings with 
the USAID CORs and laboratory leads and relevant GHSC-PSM leadership. 
Ongoing 
Document the GHSC-QA contractor’s QA responsibilities for TO1 commodities. 
We drafted and shared with the contractor, FHI360, an MOU. FHI360 has not signed 
and returned the MOU. 
On track 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 – Data transfer. Timely and complete data transfer from SCMS to GHSC-PSM was 
a challenge for part of the quarter. Examples of data requirements include standard operating 
procedures (SOPs), contract details, and open orders in each country. Delays in transfer and 
lack of compete data posed a risk for procurement and delivery of key product groups. GHSC-
PSM responded to procurement and delivery risks by using country data gathered by the startup 
teams and by integrating our procurement and delivery responses into the transition plans for 
specific countries. We continued to clarify the data needed and to set up meetings with SCMS 
to access the data with enough lead time to mitigate any risks related to procurement and 
delivery. By the end of the quarter, the data issues largely were resolved. 
Challenge #2 – Responding to new WHO guidelines. Countries will need to make adjustments in 
their supply chain components as they adopt the new WHO guidelines and the mandate to “test 
and start.” This will require changes such as providing multi-month prescriptions to patients and 
using viral load to monitor patients on ART. Country offices will need to keep pace with 
adoption and possibly adjust variables such as warehouse space, depending on modeling 
exercises being undertaken now, in addition to transitioning out CD4 equipment and procuring 
viral load instruments. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 7 

B. TASK ORDER 2 - MALARIA 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Commodity councils. GHSC-PSM launched two commodity councils to support the sourcing of 
commodities for TO2. Commodity Council 3 will focus on all malaria pharmaceuticals, including 
artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) and medicines for the treatment of severe 
malaria. Commodity Council 4 will focus on long-lasting insecticide treated nets (LLINs) and 
malaria rapid diagnostic test kits (RDTs). The key outputs of the initial commodity council 
meetings were the draft GHSC-PSM sourcing strategies for the TO2 commodities. 
Transition. The project assumed responsibility for all malaria commodity procurement requests 
starting February 16. To support this process, GHSC-PSM established a dedicated email address 
(psmmalariaorders@ghsc-psm.org) for the submission of all order requests, reviewed and 
proposed updates to the procurement requisition forms, and developed a manual procurement 
process. We received 13 order requests for malaria commodities and started processing them. 
As of March 22, GHSC-PSM prepared and submitted to USAID a weekly Malaria Procurement 
Table that provides an update on the status of all orders submitted for malaria commodities. 
The first monthly Integrated Supply Chain Meeting between the USAID PMI and GHSC-PSM 
supply chain teams took place March 22. Participants discussed the strategic vision for sourcing 
of main product categories, including viewing a presentation on the sourcing mapping process 
and ongoing order management; the transition of procurements to GHSC-PSM; and the 
strategies and process for engaging USAID missions and suppliers. 
Quality assurance. GHSC-PSM is on track with developing a quality assurance and quality control 
(QA/QC) plan and policy for TO2. We reviewed the existing QA/QC SOPs, sent questions 
about the SOPs to USAID and FHI360, and plan to meet to finalize the review in April. GHSC-
PSM is preparing a request for expressions of interest (REOI) to pre-qualify laboratories for 
future requests for proposals (RFPs) for QC testing of malaria commodities. 
Preparedness. GHSC-PSM responded to emergency requests from the PMI team to support the 
distribution of LLINs in Burundi, Mali, and Uganda. In Mali, it was determined that alternative 
funding to support the activities was available through the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), and no immediate action from GHSC-PSM was required. 
GHSC-PSM negotiated contracts with Population Services International (PSI) in Burundi and 
with the Joint Medical Stores in Uganda to ensure that distribution of LLINs will continue during 
the transition period. 
2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 2 lists the activities and milestones planned for this TO this quarter, summarizes 
progress, and indicates the status of planned activities. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 8 

EXHIBIT 2. TO2 PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Be prepared to process one-off and emergency order requests. As of February, 
GHSC-PSM was prepared to process one-off and emergency orders. We developed a 
manual procurement process to support these order requests while awaiting 
completion of the MIS. 
Complete 
Assume all malaria commodity procurement requests. GHSC-PSM has assumed 
responsibility for procurement of all malaria commodities. We received and began 
processing 13 requests for malaria commodities. 
Complete 
Establish malaria order request email address. In February, GHSC-PSM 
established a dedicated email address that will be used by USAID missions to place 
their procurement orders. 
Complete 
Execute, with USAID/OAA approval, transitional framework agreements with key 
commodity suppliers. GHSC-PSM did not assume DELIVER’s framework 
agreements with suppliers of malaria commodities. Rather, we are managing one-off 
procurements of malaria commodities while we develop our own long-term framework 
agreements with suppliers. (See challenge #1 below.) 
On track 
Send interim PSM Order Request Forms to PMI. GHSC-PSM reviewed and 
updated the order requisition forms that USAID missions will use to place future orders 
with GHSC-PSM. We submitted the updated order requisition forms to USAID for its 
review. 
Complete 
Issue REOI for LLINs. GHSC-PSM issued an REOI for framework agreements for 
LLINs. We completed the initial technical evaluation of the responses to the REOI and 
submitted the LLIN net samples for QC testing. 
Complete 
Review and clarify TO2 SOPs with USAID and FHI360. GHSC-PSM received and 
reviewed FHI360’s QA SOPs for malaria products and submitted questions to FHI360 
and USAID about them. 
Complete 
Receive QA/QC-related SOPs from IDA, PSI, and K+N. GHSC-PSM is leveraging 
the expertise of staff from IDA, PSI, and K+N in developing GHSC-PSM QA/QC-
related SOPs. 
Complete 
Contact labs for TO2 to check possibility of taking over contract. GHSC-PSM 
received the list of labs that tested malaria commodities under the previous contract. 
We contacted these labs to determine their interest in responding to GHSC-PSM 
RFPs for similar services. 
On track 
Issue REOI followed by RFP to labs for TO2. We started developing the REOI for 
TO2 labs that will be released next quarter. 
On track 
Get TO2 lab contracts in place. We took steps to start working with the existing pre-
qualified labs to ensure QA support is available as soon as needed. We also took 
preliminary steps (the lab REOI) towards contracting labs for ongoing QA support. 
On track 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 9 

PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Transfer in-country technical assistance from DELIVER to GHSC-PSM (3 months 
prior to DELIVER technical assistance program end).  Transition planning for this 
process is under way or soon to commence in 11 countries that will buy in for TO2 
under the GHSC-PSM project. Teams are working in the field, debriefing the home 
office, and developing work plans to establish transition offices. The transition work 
plans and budgets will cover the transition of procurements, delivery of goods 
procured under DELIVER but received by GHSC-PSM, and the hiring of incumbent 
and new staff to lead the work. 
The countries buying in to TO2 as of the end of Quarter 1 were: Burma, Burundi, 
Ghana, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Zambia, and 
Zimbabwe. 
On track 
3. 
CHALLENGES
Challenge #1 – ACT order to avoid stockouts. Novartis, an ACT supplier, is considering shutting 
down production if no orders are received shortly, creating a risk that the project would not be 
able to supply upcoming ACT (ALu) orders. To mitigate the risk of losing this production 
capacity, GHSC-PSM will place several orders for monthly deliveries between Oct 2016 and 
March 2017. Long-term agreements between GHSC-PSM and ACT manufacturers will be in 
place by that time to ensure continuous supply. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 10 

C. TASK ORDER 3 – FAMILY 
PLANNING/REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Commodity councils. We launched Commodity Council 5 for reproductive health pharmaceuticals 
and Commodity Council 6 for condoms and lubricants. At commodity council meetings, we 
discussed the composition and purpose of the commodity councils, outlined the sourcing 
strategy for TO3, and defined key considerations for sourcing. 
Transition. GHSC-PSM developed a process and coordinated with DELIVER on how to address 
open orders and the delivery of family planning/reproductive health (FP/RH) commodities. We 
reviewed and provided input to a service level agreement between GHSC-PSM and the 
incumbent to clarify roles and responsibilities of each party in the procurement process. 
Specifically, during the transition period, all orders will be submitted through My Commodities1 
and DELIVER will share updates on new orders each week. GHSC-PSM and DELIVER will 
determine roles for new orders according to three scenarios: (1) DELIVER procures and ships 
the commodities; (2) DELIVER procures and GHSC-PSM ships; or (3) GHSC-PSM procures and 
ships. Given the estimated production lead times and ship dates for the items that GHSC-PSM 
will procure and ship, the project is prioritizing contracts with suppliers of lubricants, female 
condoms, and male condoms. GHSC-PSM has 66 orders in process under TO3. 
There are a number of registration challenges with FP/RH commodities in some countries. The 
extended registration timeline and low sales volumes in some countries reduce suppliers’ 
interest in investing the time and money to register their products there. USAID convenes a 
Registration Task Force to monitor registration issues, facilitate the registration process, and 
enhance coordination on these issues among funders and global partners. GHSC-PSM has 
designated points of contact to participate in the Registration Task Force meetings. 
Regarding logistics, USAID, DELIVER, and GHSC-PSM held discussions about transitioning 
warehouse responsibilities and transferring inventory of FP/RH commodities in the warehouses 
in the Netherlands and Singapore. We still are finalizing the transfer process and timeline. 
Staffing. The finance manager, the supplier relations manager, and several buyers joined the 
team. The procurement and logistics manager and the global collaboration manager should be 
on board by the middle of next quarter, at which point TO3 will be fully staffed. 
Preparedness. Project staff drafted an RFQ for Sayana Press injectables for Pfizer to secure 
product in anticipation of a possible shutdown of the production line. We also sent an RFQ to 
WHO pre-qualified suppliers for two orders of Panther specialty male condoms requested for 
Zimbabwe. 
We are in the process of drafting RFQs for oral contraceptives, male condoms, female 
condoms, and lubricants. We have worked with FHI360 to obtain current specifications for the 
products. Our Risk Management team has been carefully reviewing the terms and conditions of 
all sourcing activities. 
1 My Commodities is the DELIVER project’s online platform for managing and reporting on all orders. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 11 

Core work plan. Throughout the quarter, GHSC-PSM worked very collegially with USAID to 
develop the work plan for TO3 core activities through fiscal year (FY) 2016 and for FY 2017. 
Core activities starting in FY 2016 include: (1) transition to GHSC-PSM the Procurement 
Planning and Monitoring Reports (PPMRs) and the Coordinated Assistance for Reproductive 
Health Supplies (CARhs) group to identify and plan responses to stockout risks; (2) find ways to 
better engage the commercial sector; and (3) provide training to USAID staff on supply chain 
management and contraceptive security. 
2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 3 lists the activities and milestones planned for this TO this quarter, summarizes 
progress, and indicates the status of planned activities. 
EXHIBIT 3. TO3 PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Be prepared to process one-off and emergency order requests. As of February, 
GHSC-PSM was prepared to process one-off and emergency order requests. There 
were no such orders for TO3. 
Complete 
Execute, with USAID/OAA approval, transitional framework agreements with key 
commodity suppliers. We are reaching agreement with Pfizer on Sayana Press, and 
are developing several RFQs in preparation for sourcing. 
On track 
Place the urgent, high priority Sayana Press order. GHSC-PSM drafted the RFQ 
for Sayana Press and sent the draft to USAID for review. (See challenge #1 below.) 
On track 
Request TO3 SOPs from USAID and FHI360, and document roles and 
responsibilities of USAID/FHI360/PSM under TO3 in an MOU. We started 
coordinating with FHI360 counterparts about QA for TO3. We documented roles and 
responsibilities in an MOU that has been sent to FHI360 and awaits its signature. 
FHI360 cannot provide its SOPs until the MOU has been executed. 
On track 
Request/receive list of USAID pre-approved health commodities for TO3. GHSC-
PSM now has the lists of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)- and WHO-
approved commodities. There are issues with packaging of some commodities that 
may impact registration in some countries. (See challenge #2 below.) 
Complete 
Establish process to receive weekly data updates from DELIVER (for TO3). 
GHSC-PSM and DELIVER established a process for receiving and discussing bi-
weekly open orders and inventory snapshot data updates. 
Complete 
Transfer in-country technical assistance from DELIVER to GHSC-PSM (3 months
prior to DELIVER technical assistance program end). Transition planning for this 
process is under way or soon to commence in 12 countries that will buy in for TO3. 
Teams are working in the field, debriefing the home office, and developing work plans 
to establish transition offices. The transition work plans and budgets will cover the 
transition of procurements, delivery of goods procured under DELIVER but received 
by GHSC-PSM, and the hiring of incumbent and new staff to lead the work. 
The countries buying in to TO3 were: Ethiopia, Ghana, Haiti, Liberia, Madagascar, 
Malawi, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, and Zambia. 
On track 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 12 

PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Develop a work plan for core-funded activities. The TO3 team worked with USAID 
to understand priorities for core-funded activities and started developing a draft work 
plan and budget for these activities. The work plan and budget will be submitted early 
in Quarter 2. 
On track 
Start procurements for each commodity category. Sourcing activities were started 
for all commodity categories. Sourcing events for Sayana Press and Panther male 
condoms are imminent. 
On track 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 – Sayana Press. Pfizer has warned of a possible shut down of the Sayana Press 
production line. This creates a risk of stockouts of this contraceptive. To avoid stockouts, 
USAID instructed GHSC-PSM to issue an RFQ for 1 and 2 million units. GHSC-PSM has 
submitted the draft RFQ to USAID and we will release the RFQ to Pfizer early next quarter. 
Challenge #2 – Registration issues due to packaging. There are registration issues in some countries 
for Bayer’s Microgynon and Combination 3 oral contraceptives due to the transition of 
packaging from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) to ACLAR. GHSC-PSM will continue to engage with 
USAID on this issue. GHSC-PSM conducted a first meeting with Bayer to anticipate any 
potential shortages due to the packaging transition and has scheduled subsequent meetings to 
avoid stockouts. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 13 

D. GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN 
The Global Supply Chain team works as an integrated group of functional teams – Plan, Source, 
Deliver/Return, and QA. Additionally GHSC-PSM is developing an MIS that provides end-to-end 
visibility of global supply chain data. Along with managing global supply chain activities for the 
TOs (as summarized in Sections A – C of this report), these teams create the processes, 
procedures, and infrastructure that support supply chain activities across the project. In this 
section we summarize the cross-cutting supply chain support activities of the Global Supply 
Chain and MIS teams. 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Cross-cutting 
GHSC-PSM organized TWGs to ensure that information is exchanged and functions are quickly 
transferred from SCMS and DELIVER to GHSC-PSM. A GHSC-PSM functional team leader leads 
each TWG. The TWGs include representatives from USAID (by task order) and from SCMS 
and DELIVER, as needed. The TWGs developed and are implementing detailed transition plans. 
They are meeting weekly during the transition period or until their goals are met. 
We organized five TWGs under the supply chain function: TWG4 – Supply Planning; TWG5 – 
Health Commodity Procurement; TWG6 – Logistics; TWG7 – Quality Assurance; and TWG8 – 
MIS/Data Visibility. The TWGs meet regularly on an individual basis and collectively in TO 
integrated supply chain meetings. 
Our work builds off the data, contracts, and procedures established under SCMS and DELIVER. 
On January 15, we requested background data and material from the incumbents. Through the 
TWGs and other interactions, we are working closely and collaboratively with SCMS and 
DELIVER leadership and staff to plan and 
implement a smooth transition. 
Another cross-cutting activity was 
launching six of the eight proposed 
commodity councils, as mentioned in 
Sections A – C above. Members of all of 
the Global Supply Chain teams participate 
in these commodity councils. 
Six of eight commodity councils convened 
1.
HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals 
2. Lab equipment and medical supplies 
3.
Malaria pharmaceuticals 
4.
Bed nets and malaria rapid diagnostic tests 
5.
Reproductive health pharmaceuticals and devices 
6. Male and female condoms 
7. Essential medicines
8.
Other global health commodities 
Plan 
GHSC-PSM made significant progress in determining how and when to transition commodity 
procurements and inventory from SCMS and DELIVER to GHSC-PSM. We developed several 
tools and models that will be used to support planning. We established regular data exchanges 
with the incumbents and worked with the MIS team to plan how to make project MIS data 
available to support the Plan team’s work. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 14 

Source
GHSC-PSM submitted draft strategic sourcing strategies for six commodity councils that focus 
on key commodities to be procured by the project. We updated analysis of the top 20 suppliers 
by commodity group, and ascertained the federal acquisition regulations (FAR) implications of 
developing sole-source contracts with current suppliers. 
GHSC-PSM developed an end-to-end sourcing and procurement process in order to start 
processing one-off and emergency request orders for all TOs. 
Our team managed two major sourcing events: an REOI for LLINs and an RFP for ARVs. The 
Source team also worked on a number of other solicitations for the TOs as detailed in Sections 
A – C above. 
GHSC-PSM developed a supplier database with an initial list of more than 100 suppliers. Our 
Source team started meeting individually with many suppliers, including at the joint 
WHO/UNAIDS meeting for HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and diagnostics. 
Deliver/Return 
GHSC-PSM managed two important deliver/return sourcing events: an RFP for freight, bill, 
payment and audit (FBP&A) services and an RFP for freight forwarding/third party logistics (3PL). 
The team also made significant progress in addressing warehousing needs. This included drafting 
solicitations, communicating with potential offerors, and initiating price analyses and negotiations 
for RDC/warehouse providers. 
Quality Assurance 
GHSC-PSM drafted the QA Plan and Policy. We worked with USAID and the GHSC-QA 
contractor FHI360 to understand the QA contractor’s role and responsibilities for QA for TOs 
1 and 3. We documented how we would interact with the QA contractor on TOs 1 and 3 in an 
MOU. We obtained QA SOPs for TO2 (for which GHSC-PSM is now responsible) and started 
to adapt these. On the basis of this interchange of information and our QA Plan and Policy, our 
QA team is starting to document work instructions, procedures, and policies. 
MIS/Data Visibility 
The MIS team worked with project counterparts to develop MIS functional requirement 
blueprints. In particular, the MIS team worked with the Plan, Source, and Deliver/Return teams 
to develop blueprinting specifications including for Emptoris, the online catalog, order 
management, the K+N system interface, financial reporting, and dashboards/analytics. Plans for 
development of the MIS were revised to reflect four releases over 18 months, with initial 
operating capability available by May 16, 2016. 
The MIS team had a number of meetings with the Business Intelligence and Analytics (BI&A) 
contractor, Intellicog, to review InfoSpec and ensure that our MIS will be able to satisfy InfoSpec 
data requirements. A specific focus is the product catalog, which GHSC-PSM will assume in the 
future. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 15 

2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 4 lists the planned activities and milestones scheduled in the TO transition plan for this 
quarter, summarizes progress, and indicates the status of planned activities. 
EXHIBIT 4. GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Release interim forecast tool. The Plan team developed initial models for central 
forecasting and reviewed these with the FP/RH planning leads. 
Complete 
Finalize initial modeling scope. The Plan team developed the initial scope for the 
network optimization model. It also conducted weekly review sessions with USAID to 
move towards a new network optimization design. 
Complete 
Finalize data and model design. The Plan team defined all data required to perform 
the network optimization model and collected data to perform the analysis. 
Complete 
Create initial modeling scenario. The Plan team started developing scenarios for 
review. The team plans to present its initial recommendations in late April. 
Complete 
Establish interim process to receive data updates from the GHSC-PSM MIS 
team. The Plan team developed an interim plan to receive data updates in order to 
plan replenishment orders for the RDCs for June/July. 
Complete 
Develop strategic sourcing strategies. The Source team developed draft strategic 
sourcing strategies for the six priority commodity councils. These include an analysis 
of the top 20 suppliers by commodity group. 
Complete 
Develop sourcing and procurement process. To be prepared to process orders in 
Quarter 1, the Source team developed a manual end-to-end sourcing and 
procurement process. 
Complete 
Contact suppliers. The Source team developed a supplier database and has 
populated it with information on more than 100 suppliers. Team members are 
systematically approaching suppliers in the database to introduce GHSC-PSM. 
Complete 
Release tender for FBP&A. The Deliver/Return team released a tender for FBP&A 
services and is vetting and analyzing the responses received from offerors. 
Complete 
Establish initial warehouse capability with current service providers. The 
Deliver/Return team began negotiations with the incumbents’ existing RDCs in Africa 
and the warehouse depots in Singapore and the Netherlands. 
On target 
Sign contract with incumbent warehouse provider IHS. With rate information 
provided by IHS, the Deliver/Return team used cost analysis, scenarios based on 
provided invoices and rates, and market rates to analyze the cost structure of the 
current agreement for the RDCs. This is informing the contract for IHS that GHSC-
PSM is drafting to continue these services for the short term. 
On target 
Issue RFQ for 3PL provider. GHSC-PSM introduced ourselves to 3PL providers and 
prepared them for a scheduled solicitation for freight forwarding. The Deliver/Return 
team developed and signed non-disclosure agreements with providers that is 
appropriate for our fourth party logistics (4PL) model to assuage their concerns about 
sharing pricing information within GHSC-PSM (given that our consortium includes a 
competitor, K+N). 
Complete 
Sign contract with incumbent warehouse provider United Parcel Service (UPS). 
The Deliver/Return team began negotiations with UPS regarding its warehouse depots 
in Singapore and the Netherlands. 
On target 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 16 

PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Develop QA plan and policy. The QA team drafted a malaria QA plan and policy that 
is being reviewed internally and will be finalized in collaboration with USAID next 
quarter. GHSC-PSM’s overarching quality management system (QMS) is under 
development. 
On target 
Obtain QA/QC-related SOPs from IDA, Population Services International, and 
K+N. GHSC-PSM is leveraging the expertise of staff from IDA, PSI, and K+N in 
developing our SOPs. 
Complete 
Finalize the MIS development schedule. We worked with USAID to review the 
scope of the MIS and revise the implementation schedule to include four releases 
instead of three. Release 4 will identify optional functionality to improve overall 
efficiencies and will be evaluated before engaging in these activities. (See challenge 
#1 below.) 
Complete 
Develop approach for Chemonics’ FMIS to support GHSC-PSM financial 
reporting requirements. The MIS team developed an approach to add two attributes 
to Chemonics’ financial management information system (FMIS) modules. A 
combination of billing codes and the two additional attributes will support financial 
reporting that meets USAID’s requirements. 
Complete 
Release MIS Version 0, supplier and contract management (Emptoris). The MIS 
team delivered the MIS release 0, which includes functionality in Emptoris for supplier 
and contract management, on time. We uploaded key supplier data into Emptoris and 
trained users on the system. 
Complete 
Prepare micro design for 0.6 MIS release to support warehousing. The MIS team 
completed the design work to implement basic order and warehouse capabilities for 
release 0.6. 
Complete 
Determine MIS functional requirements. The MIS team conducted blueprinting to 
document MIS functional requirements. Blueprinting will continue into May, at which 
point USAID and the team will sign off on the MIS requirements. 
On target 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 – MIS functionality in early releases. Developing an MIS that provides all the data and 
functionality expected by the GHSC-PSM team and USAID is a significant challenge. The main 
risk is having overly ambitious expectations for early releases. During blueprinting, some 
requirements are being shifted forward, and the MIS team will have to assess the impact of this. 
It may be necessary to make tradeoffs in terms of delivering functionality. If needed, these will 
be discussed with USAID. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 17 

E. COUNTRY PROGRAMS 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Transition planning. At a transition meeting hosted by USAID, the GHSC-PSM Country Programs 
team started coordinating with the SCMS and DELIVER teams on transitioning country 
programs. Subsequently, SCMS and DELIVER provided a high-level overview of their programs, 
and are providing detailed information on operations and technical activities for each of the 20 
countries interested in a GHSC-PSM buy-in. 
GHSC-PSM formed the Country Programs Technical Assistance TWG (TWG9) to spearhead 
transition planning for country programs. We submitted a GHSC-PSM country transition plan 
that outlines how we prepare to transition each country program, the country buy-in process, 
and how we handle technical scoping and operational startup. The TWG9 leader coordinates 
weekly with USAID counterparts for each TO to identify transition needs, country priorities, 
and opportunities for improvement in communications and handover. 
GHSC-PSM regional managers worked very closely with USAID country backstop teams and 
with mission staff to understand country requirements and to plan scoping visits. Based on this 
information, we formed startup teams comprising operational specialists and technical 
specialists, as needed. SCMS or DELIVER staff also participate in scoping visits for programs 
transitioning from their projects to GHSC-PSM. Exhibit 5 lists the teams deployed for startup 
visits this quarter. 
EXHIBIT 5. STARTUP TEAMS DEPLOYED 
COUNTRY 
TEAM LEAD 
TEAM MEMBERS 
ARRIVAL 
Burma 
Shaun O’Neil 
TO3 Systems Strengthening Manager 
Operations Team Lead 
3/28/2016 
Ghana 
Mark Morris 
Regional Programs Manager 
Operations Team Lead 
Recruitment Specialist 
3/29/2016 
Madagascar 
Grace Adeya 
TO2 Systems Strengthening Manager 
Senior Contracts Specialist 
Operations Team Lead 
Operations Specialist 
Recruitment Specialist 
3/21/2016 
Malawi 
Shane McGee 
Regional Programs Manager 
Warehouse Specialist 
Subcontracts Specialist 
Operations Team Lead 
Operations Specialist 
Recruitment Specialist 
3/29/2016 
Mozambique 
Doris Youngs 
Country Programs Manager 
Operations Team Lead 
Recruitment Specialist 
Procurement Specialist 
Contracts & Finance 
Specialist 
1/23/2016 
Zimbabwe 
Doris Youngs 
Country Programs Manager 
Mary Lyn Field-Nguer 
TO1 Director 
Senior Contracts Specialist 
Security Specialist
Operations Team Lead 
Operations Specialist 
3/29/2016 
Lesotho 
Brian Agbiriogu 
M&E Manager 
Operations Team Lead 
3/29/2016 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 18 

During these visits we meet with the mission and stakeholders to establish relations and gather 
information needed for a seamless and efficient transition of program activities to GHSC-PSM. 
The team leader oversees planning consultations to build relationships; understand 
programmatic requirements, current activities, and challenges; and identify technical priorities 
during the transition. The operations team lead manages operational launch of project, including 
project registration, management and financial systems, project policies and procedures, and 
recruitment, and oversees the operations and/or recruitment specialist(s). The contracts 
specialist reviews subcontracts, leases, and vendor agreements to understand subcontracting 
needs and contractual obligations for warehousing, local procurement, staffing, and general 
contractors in countries where USAID has supported an augmented or parallel supply chain. 
The security specialist conducts an initial country security assessment and benchmarking, 
develops a security platform, and recommends ways to ensure staff and commodity security in 
new or higher risk countries. 
After the scoping visit, the regional managers work closely with mission Activity Managers in 
each country and USAID country backstops in Washington to develop budgets and interim 
work plans through the end of FY 2016. These address the requirements of transitioning 
technical assistance and systems strengthening activities, parallel supply chain activities (if any), 
and operational start up. They also provide support for assessments and full work planning for 
FY 2017, which the teams will conduct in June and July 2016. Based on findings from scoping 
visits, the TWG9 determined that certain countries may require a startup budget to advance 
transition activities while interim work planning and budgeting take place, and is planning for this. 
Initiation of GHSC-PSM support in new countries. In addition to transitioning technical assistance 
and other support from SCMS or DELIVER to GHSC-PSM, some missions that had not received 
support previously plan to buy in to the project. The first of such countries was Lesotho, which 
we visited late in the quarter. 
Submission and approval of the GHSC-PSM Mozambique Transition Plan. On December 29, 2015, 
USAID/Mozambique was the first mission to express interest in a buy-in. The initial scoping 
trip started within two weeks of the project’s official kickoff. The operations team made 
progress in transitioning warehousing, IT systems, and commodity procurement, and initiated 
registration, recruitment, and identification of office space. GHSC-PSM submitted a transition 
work plan to USAID, which was approved by the end of the quarter. 
2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 6 lists the planned activities and milestones scheduled in the transition plan for this 
quarter, summarizes progress, and indicates the status of planned activities. 
EXHIBIT 6. COUNTRY PROGRAMS PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Open 17 field offices (staff, leases, inventory) by July 1, 2016. Our Country 
Programs Team held initial conversations with the USAID backstops and missions for 
20 countries interested in a GHSC-PSM buy in. We visited Burma, Ghana, Lesotho, 
Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe in Quarter 1, and are in the 
process of developing detailed interim work plans for each of these countries for FY 
2016. We also are planning visits to the remaining 10+ countries early in Quarter 2. 
(See challenge #1 below.) 
On target 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 19 

PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Transfer in-country technical assistance from SCMS and DELIVER to GHSC-
PSM. Technical scoping is an important focus of planning visits. GHSC-PSM scoping 
teams solicit inputs from USAID missions, government officials, national supply chain 
staff, and other health commodity supply chain stakeholders. These stakeholders 
indicate the technical assistance activities they would like to see continued or phased 
out, and what new systems strengthening activities they would like GHSC-PSM to 
initiate. The country team then incorporates these priorities in the detailed interim work 
plan for that country. Many of the immediate technical assistance needs that have 
been identified to date include support to transitioning logistics management 
information systems (LMIS), warehousing assessments to inform longer-term 
warehousing strategy, or stop-gap support for annual forecasting and quantification. 
(See challenge #2 below.) 
On target 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 – Scoping visits. The major challenge this quarter was the need to initiate the 
transition process simultaneously from the incumbents in multiple countries. The risk of not 
meeting this challenge is that technical assistance and supply chain support in these countries 
would be disrupted, in turn disrupting health programs. To address this, we worked closely with 
USAID country backstops to set up calls and meetings with the green-lit missions to understand 
the transition priorities and challenges for each country. We then worked through the Country 
Programs Technical Assistance TWG to coordinate dates with each mission for the first scoping 
visit. To be able to conduct the visits concurrently and to ensure that the needed expertise was 
included in each transition team, GHSC-PSM worked closely with Chemonics’ Supply Chain 
Solutions Division to engage experts from all of Chemonics’ business units and support divisions. 
We were able to organize and field teams by the end of March to seven countries. We are 
using the same approach to field teams to an additional 10+ countries early in Quarter 2. 
Challenge #2 – Gap between scoping visit and approved budget. The second major challenge is to 
develop interim work plans and budgets and get them approved in time to have staff and 
contracts in place when the incumbents’ offices close. We learned through our first experience 
(Mozambique) that it is critical to have additional funding to cover activities between the scoping 
trip and approval of the interim work plan and budget. Certain missions are not comfortable 
programming startup costs in the initial scoping trip. To address this funding gap, the Country 
Programs Team worked with USAID to conceive a startup budget to support activities through 
June 2016 following the scoping trip. The Country Programs Team and Supply Chain Solutions 
Division devoted considerable effort to developing a well-conceived work plan and accounting 
for activities in a new activity-based budget template, mirroring the technical criteria required by 
the BI&A contractor, to facilitate planning and USAID approval. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 20 

F. GLOBAL COLLABORATION 
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
The procurement and country office transitions must be completed before the incumbent 
contracts end on September 26, 2016 (for SCMS, DELIVER TO7, and DELIVER TO4 technical 
assistance) and in February 2017 (for DELIVER TO5 procurement). Thus, for the first quarter of 
the project, with USAID’s concurrence, GHSC-PSM prioritized procurement and country 
technical assistance activities. 
Global Strategic Engagement 
GHSC-PSM received lists of global groups with whom SCMS and DELIVER work. With USAID, 
we are deciding on GHSC-PSM’s role with these and other groups. 
GHSC-PSM participated in the following meetings: 
 
Inter-agency Supply Chain Group (ISG). GHSC-PSM’s project director presented an overview 
of the project to this key group that leads coordination to ensure a sustainable supply of 
quality essential medicines. This was one of the first presentations about the project to an 
external audience. 
 
International Association of Public Health Logisticians (IAPHL). GHSC-PSM participated in a 
stakeholder meeting to discuss and identify options for the future structure of this group. 
 
People that Deliver (PtD). In February, GHSC-PSM and PtD staff discussed ways our 
organizations can work together. We agreed to continue these discussions once the GHSC-
PSM Global Collaboration team is fully staffed. 
 
Reproductive Health Global Advisory Traceability Group (RHGTAG). GHSC-PSM started 
participating in the RHGTAG monthly calls. We are working with USAID colleagues to 
develop draft contract language and an action plan to implement GS1 product identification 
standards on all health commodities procured by GHSC-PSM. 
 
Reproductive Health Supplies Coalition (RHSC). Project staff attended RHSC’s Market 
Development Approaches Working Group (MDAWG) to introduce the project to the 
group and to understand better the coalition’s goals and activities. 
 
WHO/UNAIDS Global Forecasting. Following plenary discussions and presentations at the 
meeting, the GHSC-PSM team met with the major pharmaceutical and diagnostic suppliers 
in individual meetings, with USAID and SCMS representatives present. 
Market Dynamics 
GHSC-PSM was working with USAID to confirm the structure and scope of market dynamics 
activities and to prioritize the key questions that we should investigate for each TO and product 
category. These include: 
 
Identifying high-impact pipeline products to allow forward planning for introduction and 
scale up 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 21 

 
Analyzing production economics to help set supplier incentives and steer markets toward 
sustainable margins 
 
Identifying and alleviating capacity constraints for global supply 
 
Identifying and mitigating supply risks 
The Market Dynamics team supported the commodity councils’ kickoff by presenting 
preliminary market health assessments for each product category. These preliminary 
assessments synthesized initial market research across global demand, supply, pricing, and 
product pipelines. 
Knowledge Management and Communications 
GHSC-PSM worked to finalize the project’s Branding Implementation Plan and Marking Plan. 
Once USAID has signed off, we will proceed with some key project materials, including 
templates for the newsletter, PowerPoint® presentations, business cards, and reports. 
GHSC-PSM conducted formative research on USAID and GHSC-PSM project leaderships’ 
priorities for project website audiences, content, and functionality. We also developed a high-
level inventory of legacy materials on the SCMS and DELIVER websites. 
2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
No activities or milestones for the global collaboration objective were planned for the initial 
quarter. Nonetheless, as shown in Section F.1 above, significant progress was made. 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 - Staffing. Gaps on the Global Collaboration team have delayed some activities. 
Most, if not all, gaps will be filled in Quarter 2. 
Challenge #2 - Website. In Quarter 2, the project will work with the CORs to submit an 
application to USAID’s Website Governance Board, which must formally agree to a project 
website. The board also will decide whether the project must use the USAID.gov URL. Any 
delay in approval ultimately will delay development of the project website. In the meantime, we 
are preparing to release an RFP to web development firms as soon as USAID sign off is 
received. We also are updating information on GHSC-PSM on Chemonics.com and adding links 
to high priority information while we build the permanent website. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 22 

G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1. 
HIGHLIGHTS 
This section highlights cross-cutting project management and monitoring and evaluation 
activities. 
Project Management 
GHSC-PSM and USAID developed a collaborative partnership in the first quarter of the project. 
All of the major milestones for this phase of startup, including the on-time submission of all 
GHSC-PSM contract deliverables to USAID, were met. 
Project leadership completed the following activities in Quarter 1: 
 
Planned and completed the project startup and the collaboration conferences 
 
Proposed a transition framework agreement 
 
Provided detailed transition planning 
 
Launched the TWGs, including for project management functions, namely senior 
management/operations (TWG1) and finance (TWG2) 
 
Hired and on-boarded 60 percent of the billable team positions (106 out of 176 staff 
members) 
 
Developed financial systems to track TO funding flows 
 
Defined and began implementing modifications to Chemonics’ financial systems to meet 
GHSC-PSM-wide information specifications for budgeting, tracking, and reporting project 
financials 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
The M&E team completed the following activities in Quarter 1: 
 
Launched the M&E TWG (TWG3) 
 
Collaborated with the USAID M&E points of contact to develop the M&E plan, discuss 
software tools for data storage and reporting, and determine the schedule for reporting 
results for each objective 
 
Developed KPIs and submitted the draft project M&E plan 
 
Shared KPI reporting requirements with the MIS team 
 
Supported country startup recruitment, and developed an in-country M&E plan template 
2. 
PROGRESS AGAINST THE TRANSITION PLAN 
Exhibit 7 lists the project management and M&E activities and milestones scheduled in the 
transition plan for this quarter, summarizes progress, and indicates the status of planned 
activities. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 23 

EXHIBIT 7. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND M&E PLANS, PROGRESS, AND STATUS 
PLAN AND PROGRESS 
STATUS 
Complete startup conference. GHSC-PSM hosted a startup conference on January 
7 – 8 where project leadership and USAID discussed the general transition approach, 
launched the TWGs, and discuss data and documentation requirements for a smooth 
transition. 
Complete 
Propose transition framework agreement. At a startup conference in early January, 
GHSC-PSM presented the transition framework. This framework includes formation of 
TWGs; transition planning with USAID, SCMS and DELIVER; and a detailed transition 
plan. 
Complete 
Initiate development of TWG plans. GHSC-PSM launched all 10 TWGs at the 
startup conference. TWGs started meeting regularly with USAID counterparts and 
SCMS or DELIVER counterparts (where relevant). The TWGs developed detailed 
transition plans and are actively managing transition activities. 
Complete 
Receive requested data from USAID, the Business Intelligence and Analytics 
contractor, SCMS, and DELIVER. GHSC-PSM submitted a list of datasets, 
documents, and other materials from USAID, SCMS, and DELIVER necessary to plan 
and implement a smooth transition. We received the majority of requested materials 
and consider this milestone largely complete. We continue to follow up with USAID, 
SCMS, and DELIVER periodically about remaining items and new requests. 
Complete 
Complete the collaboration conference. USAID convened a meeting with GHSC-
PSM, SCMS, and DELIVER. United behind USAID’s vision for a smooth transition in 
global supply chain, technical assistance, and other activities, conference participants 
began detailed discussions on transition management, global supply chain, technical 
assistance, communication protocols, and the substantive transmission of knowledge 
and data. 
Complete 
Determine global supply chain, in-country, and cross-cutting indicators. The 
M&E team developed a comprehensive set of KPIs for USAID’s consideration. 
On track 
Submit Performance Management Plans. The M&E team submitted the 
Performance Management Plans (PMPs) (since renamed M&E plans) for each of the 
TOs. 
On track 
3. 
CHALLENGES 
Challenge #1 – Staffing. The project’s original transition plan assumed a full transition of global 
supply chain and country offices within nine months of project start. Although awarded on April 
15, 2015, GHSC-PSM contract implementation was delayed significantly due to two protests. 
USAID designated January 11, 2016, as the official project start for the purposes of deliverable 
and activity due dates, and Chemonics immediately started implementing project activities. 
Given the extended protest, however, the originally planned nine month transition period was 
reduced for a number of key milestones, including the following: 
 
Transition of inventory in RDCs from SCMS and DELIVER to GHSC-PSM 
 
Full manual capability to assume routine commodity orders 
 
Transition of country offices from SCMS and DELIVER to GHSC-PSM by July 2016 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 24 

Many of the originally-proposed staff were no longer available in January 2016. The risk of not 
making a fast start with many interrelated activities was that the project would not be able to 
transition procurement, supply chain, and systems strengthening activities from the incumbents 
in time. Our solutions were to prioritize filling leadership positions (with many candidates 
recruited and waiting for hiring approval), have staff fill multiple roles until more colleagues were 
brought on board, and tap resources from Chemonics’ Supply Chain Solutions and other 
divisions (particularly for the country startup teams). These solutions have enabled GHSC-PSM 
to meet the key milestones and conduct country scoping visits in order to meet the compressed 
transition timeframe. 
Challenge # 2 – Managing a difficult transition. Transitioning work from an incumbent to a new 
contractor always presents the risk that some critical information will not be conveyed, that 
processes involving outside parties will be interrupted, that staff will abandon the incumbent to 
join the new team while the incumbent needs to manage close out activities, and that the 
incumbent will not be cooperative. These risks were multiplied for GHSC-PSM because two 
existing contracts were merging into one new contract. USAID’s leadership in establishing 
expectations for a smooth transition and setting a respectful and cooperative tone was critical. 
Our development of TWGs that detailed data and information requirements and that engaged 
regularly with SCMS and DELIVER staff led to systematic information sharing. We focused early 
on contacting existing suppliers and on communicating with USAID backstops and missions to 
plan the transition of country programs, in some cases conducting country scoping visits with 
SCMS or DELIVER staff. We negotiated a clear protocol with the SCMS and DELIVER 
contractors addressing the recruitment and hiring of incumbent project staff, and have been 
judicious and respectful about the timing of transitioning staff from SCMS or DELIVER to GHSC-
PSM. With USAID’s support and with open and respectful communication, we have developed 
productive relations with the SCMS and DELIVER teams that is greatly assisting transition. 
GHSC-PSM QUARTERLY REPORT YEAR 1 QUARTER 1 | 25 
